README.md, before:

Sublime Text is a powerful GUI text editor which is a base for implementing features of an integrated development environment for Silver lagnuage.

This repository contains files required for installing Viper extensions for Sublime Text on OS X.

### Installation ###

The instructions in this section are checked on Mac OS X 10.11, but they should work
on Linux as well (modulo the system paths).

#### 1. Install Sublime

You can download the latest version from here: http://www.sublimetext.com/3

Viper-Sublime-IDE requires Sublime Text 3 and will not work with Sublime Text 2.


#### 2. Get the IDE files

Clone this repository to the Sublime Packages directory:

```bash
$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 3/Packages
$ hg clone ssh://hg@bitbucket.org/viperproject/viper-sublime-ide Silver
```

#### 3. Create jar-files for verification backends

Assemble (or otherwise obtain) a fat jar for each Viper backend (Silicon, Carbon, ...) you want to use from the IDE.

To assemble a fat jar, cd into the backend's checkout directory and run
```bash
$ sbt assembly
```
If successful, the assembled fat jar should be at `./target/scala-2.11/<backend>.jar`.

Put all the jars in your user's default java extentions directory. For example, if
you have a assembled `silicon.jar`, you should do the following:

```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/Library/Java/Extensions
$ cp ~/viper/silicon/target/scala-2.11/silicon.jar ~/Library/Java/Extensions
```

#### 4. Install nailgun

Optionally, if you don't want to wait for a few seconds for each verification procedure
(known as the JVM startup overhead), install [nailgun](http://martiansoftware.com/nailgun):

```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/viper/tools/nailgun
$ cd ~/viper/tools/nailgun
$ git clone https://github.com/martylamb/nailgun.git .
$ make && sudo make install
```

This will install the nailgun client, which could be used through the ```ng``` command.

In order to install the server, one should get Apache Maven. Download the archive with
Maven binaries from here: http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi
(the current version is 3.3.3).

```bash
$ mkdir ~/viper/tools/maven
$ unzip ~/Downloads/apache-maven-3.3.3-bin.zip -d ~/viper/tools/maven
$ ../maven/bin.mvn dependency::tree
$ cp nailgun-server-0.9.2-SNAPSHOT.jar ~/Library/Java/Extensions
```

Finally, run the following command to start nailgun-server:

```bash
$ java com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGServer
```

#### 5. Run the IDE

Run Sublime Text and open a ```.sil``` source file. To verify a Silver program,
choose the right Viper backend from the menu (Tools-Build With...). Make sure that
the correct build system is selected (Tools-Build System-Silver).


Please find more detailed instructions on the Viper Wiki: https://bitbucket.org/viperproject/documentation/wiki/browse/

Commit message:

progress reporting started to work on installation HowTo in readme

README.md, after:

Visual Sutio Code is a powerful GUI text editor which is a base for implementing features of an integrated verification environment for the Silver language.

This repository contains the source files of the VS Code Extension, installation instructions, and the needed files for installing it on OsX, Debian, and Windows.

### Installation ###

#### 1. Install VS Code

You can download the installer for VS Code from here: https://code.visualstudio.com/download

#### OsX

TODO: the rest is still old

#### 2. Get the IDE files

Clone this repository to the Sublime Packages directory:

```bash
$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 3/Packages
$ hg clone ssh://hg@bitbucket.org/viperproject/viper-sublime-ide Silver
```

#### 3. Create jar-files for verification backends

Assemble (or otherwise obtain) a fat jar for each Viper backend (Silicon, Carbon, ...) you want to use from the IDE.

To assemble a fat jar, cd into the backend's checkout directory and run
```bash
$ sbt assembly
```
If successful, the assembled fat jar should be at `./target/scala-2.11/<backend>.jar`.

Put all the jars in your user's default java extentions directory. For example, if
you have a assembled `silicon.jar`, you should do the following:

```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/Library/Java/Extensions
$ cp ~/viper/silicon/target/scala-2.11/silicon.jar ~/Library/Java/Extensions
```

#### 4. Install nailgun

Optionally, if you don't want to wait for a few seconds for each verification procedure
(known as the JVM startup overhead), install [nailgun](http://martiansoftware.com/nailgun):

```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/viper/tools/nailgun
$ cd ~/viper/tools/nailgun
$ git clone https://github.com/martylamb/nailgun.git .
$ make && sudo make install
```

This will install the nailgun client, which could be used through the ```ng``` command.

In order to install the server, one should get Apache Maven. Download the archive with
Maven binaries from here: http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi
(the current version is 3.3.3).

```bash
$ mkdir ~/viper/tools/maven
$ unzip ~/Downloads/apache-maven-3.3.3-bin.zip -d ~/viper/tools/maven
$ ../maven/bin.mvn dependency::tree
$ cp nailgun-server-0.9.2-SNAPSHOT.jar ~/Library/Java/Extensions
```

Finally, run the following command to start nailgun-server:

```bash
$ java com.martiansoftware.nailgun.NGServer
```

#### 5. Run the IDE

Run Sublime Text and open a ```.sil``` source file. To verify a Silver program,
choose the right Viper backend from the menu (Tools-Build With...). Make sure that
the correct build system is selected (Tools-Build System-Silver).


Please find more detailed instructions on the Viper Wiki: https://bitbucket.org/viperproject/documentation/wiki/browse/
